📝  Logging documentation (#1700)
Fusion-Power-Plant-Framework/bluemira: documentation/source/developer/logging.rst

Logging in Bluemira
-------------------

To organise and have granularity in text (and potentially graphical) outputs
we use some wrappers around python's built-in logging module.

> This allows us to both store the output in a log file but also be precise about
> how much information is presented at any one time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows us to store the output in a log file whilst also being precise about
what information is displayed in standard out.
```

            bluemira_critial,
            bluemira_debug,
            bluemira_error,
            bluemira_print,
            bluemira_warn,
        )

        bluemira_print('my message')

* The current logging level controls the amount of output to the screen not to the
  logfile which records everything that is logged.

* Logging level can be controlled with the :py:func:`set_log_level` function

    .. code-block:: python

       from bluemira.base.logs import get_log_level, set_log_level

       get_log_level()  # INFO
       set_log_level('DEBUG')
       get_log_level()  # DEBUG

* Verbosity and/or debugging function input variables should not be used but the output
  should be defined by the current log level

    .. code-block:: python

        from bluemira.base.logs import get_log_level

        # Possiblity if verbosity wants to be explicit
        def my_function(verbosity=get_log_level(as_str=False) < 2):
            if verbosity:
                # Do stuff

        # A cleaner but less customisable version
        def my_function():
            loglevel = get_log_level()
            if loglevel == "DEBUG":
                # Do stuff

> * For updated text (ex. progress bars) there are a few functions that do not print newlines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For updated text (e.g. progress bars) there are a few functions that do not print newlines
```

    .. code-block:: python

        from bluemira.base.look_and_feel import (
            bluemira_debug_flush,
            bluemira_print_flush,
        )

        bluemira_print_flush('my message')
        bluemira_print_flush('my other message')  # overwrites the first message

> * If formatted output is not desired there are error and print functions the direct to the logger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If formatted output is not desired, there are error and print functions that direct to the logger
```
